So now that we have the endpoints,
maybe the next step is to add this
endpoint to APIJS,
we can continue with a copy and
paste because it's actually most of
them are actually pretty similar.
So I'm going to copy and
paste that within APIJS,
like maybe here, in this case,
I did a whole object for
all the endpoints just to
group them on webAuthn.
So we have loginOptions,
loginVerification, registrationOptions,
registrationVerification.
And on verification, we are going to send
the email and the data that we received
from the API from the webAuthn API, that's
the one that's going to be verified.
And if everything is correct
is the one that we save in
the backend, Okay, makes sense?
So from an API endpoint point of view,
we are done.
But we still need to understand how or
when are we going to
integrate this into our PWA,
our Web App, our authentication flow.
So, one idea, it's not the only idea,
it's one idea,
is that when we are logging
in a user that, or
after we log in,
let me log in with Google.
Here, we can add a button
that after we login for
the first time or any time,
we can go on add a new
authentication or passkey or
face ID or touch ID.
So that's one way.
So we register a webAuthn
process in this page,
in the account page, does it makes sense?
And then after we login,
so if I log out here,
when I log in when I continue
while this is wrong,
some reason m@m.com on
the next step if this user
has face ID,
I can show here a button or an icon or
something that says
instead of the password or
along with the password
login with face ID.
So, before actually doing that,
let me give you the bad news.
The bad news is that the API
is authenticator agnostic.
So it accepts many authenticators,
it can be a platform authenticator,
Face ID, Touch ID, Windows Hello, or
it can be an external authenticator.
But you don't know which
one the user has used, and
you don't know which one is available.
I mean,
you can check something in the API,
but you will know if face is available,
okay?
Or fingerprint is available to render
like a nice button saying touch or face.
So to do that, unfortunately,
you need to do today at least
some kind of user agent by
the device validation, okay?
If it's an iPhone which iPhone
well in this has face ID so
then you use a face ID button,
if it's a Mac you use Touch ID and
if it's Chrome you can decide what to
do because it's multi system okay?
So I mean if you want to be like
integrate it with OS you need
to get into conditionals based on
the OS based on the browser and so on.
So if you want to be multi platform
which has asked for web authentication,
or the whole community is
going towards a name passkey.
So, you will add a passkey,
that's the noun, that we are using for
a way to log in in a website no matter how
you are going to create the passkey, okay?
Make sense?
Okay, so going back to the code,
let me make it work.
So I'm going to index.html first, so
let's add the buttons or
the button first to register.
So I'm going to the account section.
So I have a page here for
the account and before the logout or
after, whatever you want,
we are going to add a button here
that onclick I'm going to call Auth,
it can be register,
passkey or addWebAuthentication,
whatever name you want.
And again, here we can say they
want to add a new authenticator,
a new passkey, the UX for this,
I think, it's still in discussion,
which is the final UX that
everyone is going to use.
I think at the end it will depend on
what the big players are going to do
in the future, because users will
recognize for that user experience, okay?
Make sense?
Can you assume so far?
Nope.
So now we need to make
that addWebAuthn method.
So another one you wait as
long as this point, so,
addWebAuthn is going to do something and
it's going to be async because
the whole WebAuthn API is asynchronous,
so let's start with async.
So the first step, remember,
the first step is to go to the server and
request the challenge and the options.
So, we need to first get
the options from the API.
So webAuthn.registrationOptions.
So we wait for the server to
send me all that information and
here is where we are going to call so
we are going to take
a response from the webAuthn.
I'm leaving a space,
because I will add some options there.
So we're going to wait and we're going to
call the SimpleWebAuthnBrowser library,
the problem is that this is a library
that I need to import first, okay?
So, well, let me write the code and
then we import that.
So we're going to startRegistration and
registration need options,okay?
Those are the options that we have here,
but client side,
we can also add more metadata
to that option, okay?
So for example, we can define
the authenticatorSelection.residentKey
as required.
So this is actually gonna be useful for
passkeys.
Okay, I will explain that later.
And the same as
authenticatorSelection.requireResideKey
you have the code to copy and
paste in case you want to.
And extensions, credProps,
you know what is that?
Okay, we'll see in a minute.
Okay, here's a JSON so nothing like that.
Okay, so once we have the registration
remember this isn't going to work if we
don't add the client
side library to our HTML.
But when we have the registration,
the next step is to send this object
back to the server to verify.
Remember the two steps process for
WebAuthn?
So first we ask the server for options,
then we call the authenticator to do
the stuff with the Face ID or wherever.
The authenticator will give me a response,
and
then we need to send back that response
to our back end to be verified.
So now we are going to wait for
another response for
another API that is
registration verification and
verification will need
the response that we
have just got from the web API
from the previous line, okay?
And here we check if verification is okay.
So if the server is give me,
okay, I can make a message or
something say,
You can now login with WebAuthn.
If not, it didn't work, so
we could maybe show the message
that the server is sending in case
we have one, something like this.
So, this is the one that is, in fact,
this code that you see here,
is the one that is explaining this
flow that we saw before, this one.
It doesn't matter if you see
the flow again, but it's that flow,
that two-step flow,
we go twice to the server.
So I'm going to the server here and
then I'm going to do a server here,
that's why we have two endpoints.
But this is not going to work
because I need to add this library.
So it's time to go for
the first time to the website for
this library that is .dev,
the name of the library .dev.
Actually, the documentation,
it's good, good,
I'm not sure it's good enough,
it's good enough minus one, it's okay.
They have an example that is tricky to
follow but it's compared with the other
libraries available for authentication
this one is the best one for sure okay?
The other one's even
worse than than this one.
So it's that simple to use first class
type of support in fact the sample
available in the repo is TypeScript, okay?
So, I mean, if you are happy
with TypeScript, that's fine.
And when you go to the docs,
here you can see the packages and
everything, and there is a whole
section on passkeys, for example.
So it's actually pretty updated,
talking about iOS 16,
the Ventura, Microsoft Ventura so
they are behind the library.
The other libraries I kind of
have a little behind okay,
compared with this one here
you have all the habits with
Android that I will explain what
happens with Android in a minute.
So you have here what happens with Safari
browser, what happens with Edge browser.
So they are following compatibility on
each browser that's why I think it's
pretty good.
And when we go to the packages for
the browser,
here we have how to
install this from NPM or
to copy and paste the script from a CDN.
So we can just copy and
paste it from a CDN because we
don't have packager we're
not using any packager for
the front end, so
I just need to add this here like so.
So now we are ready to use
the client side library.
These client side libraries,
shares calling webAuthn client side.
Remember that webAuthn,
it's exactly sitting on top
of credential management API.
So it's saving the private and
public keys in
Credential Management using
Credential Management API, okay?
Well, I think that we are ready to
try this let's see what happens.
So I can log in with Google or
with password, it should work with both.
So now I have this
Add Authenticator/Passkey, okay?
So let's see if that works,
if I click there,
voila, we have first that dialogue
that's a Chrome dialogue saying,
okay, how do you wanna
save an authentication?
Using a USB security key,
let's write the USB key first.
So I'm going to connect this USB-C, so
I'm going to connect this to my computer.
Okay, it's connected, so USB key and
then I need to touch it because
it needs interaction, so
I need to touch it and
then in this case a pin is required,
so there will be a pin on top of that 1,
1, 1, 1.
Next, incorrect pin this is the pin for
my security key interesting because I
didn't remember they had a creaky,
okay it worked.
And now I need you touch again.
And now I can login with WebAuthn,
did it work?
Well, the process seemed to work,
let's see the database.
So we'll look at the database so
I will open, here I have my JSON.
So now Look at this, this is Maximiliano
Firtman Google federated Google account.
And I have here while this was
the challenge, I have devices,
it's an array of 1, with a buffer.
So that's the public key
with some other information
that here it says that this
was used through USB and NFC.
So, based on these values,
you could read that metadata and
show the user a message saying that,
or you can,
no this is a USB key and
not Touch ID, okay?
Let's write Touch ID so
I'm going to add another one.
Can I add more than one?
Yes, in my endpoint it will work so
I will add another one,
I will say this device, and
I will use my finger you can now log in.
Okay, let's see now here,
I have another object with
another buffer array that says,
internal, so, in this case,
it was an internal authenticator.
Again, do I know if it's touch or face?
No, but because it was a Mac,
I can say, yeah, it was touch ID,
so next time, I could say to the user hey,
you wanna use touch ID to log in?
Any question at this point?
Well on Safari,
it should work in Safari as well.
Do I have it loaded?
No.
So local health 50/50 again.
50/50, let's use the other user,
m@m.com and
the password was Frontendmaster I think.
You want to save it?
Well, okay, save it.
Let's add authenticator, this is how
Safari render things by default,
it goes automatically to Touch ID or
Face ID.
But also I have other options,
in other options,
I can say that I can use iPhone,
iPad or Android,
as my authenticator or a USB key or
I can create a passkey.
You can see that the passkey in Ventura is
kind of the wording for Webauthn, I can
save a passkey in the iCloud keychain
that will be synced across Apple devices.
So it's not just this device.
So I will continue with Touch ID, done.
Okay, you can now log in.
So going back to our app, if I look here,
my m@m here is it has an internal hybrid,
that's how Safari identifies its
authenticator with an array buffer.
So, the registration flow is working,
I'm still missing the part
where we are actually
making the authentication,
the login, okay?
But do you have any question
at this point on this?
No?
And by the way, we were saving a true,
WebAuthn true here.
So that means that even if
the login process is not ready yet,
if I open the Network tab and
I'm currently logged
in as Maximiliano let me logout first,
login again as m@m.
Continue, the options will tell me
that I can log in with password or
with WebAuthn, makes sense, right?
Because now we have a device registered,
at least one, registered in our database.